OSDOCS#6020: cert-manager: Customizing API fields (#59726)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-override-arguments.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-customizing-api-fields.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-override-arguments_{context}"]
= Customizing cert-manager by overriding arguments from the cert-manager Operator API

You can override the supported arguments for the {cert-manager-operator} by adding a `spec.controllerConfig` section in the `CertManager` resource.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the {product-title} cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

> * The {cert-manager-operator} 1.11.1 is installed.

Reviewer: Not sure if there will be z-stream v1.11.N. 1.11.1+ is more flexible.
```suggestion
* The {cert-manager-operator} 1.11.1+ is installed.
```

.Procedure

. Edit the `CertManager` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit certmanager cluster
----

. Add a `spec.controllerConfig` section with the following override arguments:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
  ...
spec:
  ...

>   controllerConfig: <1>
>   webhookConfig:
>     overrideArgs:
>       - '--v=4'
>   cainjectorConfig:
>     overrideArgs:
>       - '--v=2'
>     overrideArgs:

Reviewer: controllerConfig's overrideArgs should follow with controllerConfig immediately
```suggestion
  controllerConfig: <1>
    overrideArgs:
      ...
  webhookConfig:
    overrideArgs:
      - '--v=4'
  cainjectorConfig:
    overrideArgs:
      - '--v=2'
```

    overrideArgs:

>       - '--v=4'

Reviewer 2: Are these values supposed to be fixed? If no, then it can be changed to something like callout <5>

  cainjectorConfig:
    overrideArgs:

>       - '--v=2'

Reviewer 2: Are these values supposed to be fixed? If no, then it can be changed to something like callout <5>

----

> <1> Add the `spec.controllerConfig` section.

Reviewer 2: I think this callout can be skipped since the step itself mentions that.

<3> Specify to only use recursive nameservers instead of checking the authoritative nameservers associated with that domain.
<4> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the ACME HTTP01 self check. For example, `--acme-http01-solver-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53`.
<5> Specify to set the log level verbosity to determine the verbosity of log messages.
<6> Specify the host and port for the metrics endpoint. The default value is `--metrics-listen-address=0.0.0.0:9402`.

. Save your changes and quit the text editor to apply your changes.

.Verification

* Verify that arguments are updated for cert-manager pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n cert-manager -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    name: cert-manager-6d4b5d4c97-kldwl
    namespace: cert-manager
...
  spec:
    containers:
    - args:
      - --acme-http01-solver-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53
      - --cluster-resource-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
      - --dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53
      - --dns01-recursive-nameservers-only
      - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
      - --max-concurrent-challenges=60

>       - --metrics-listen-address=<host>:<port>

Reviewer 2: since this is example output, I think it would be better to have an actual host and port values. Up to you though.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-customizing-api-fields.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-override-arguments_{context}"]
= Customizing cert-manager by overriding arguments from the cert-manager Operator API

> You can override the supported arguments for the {cert-manager-operator} by adding a `spec.controllerConfig` section in the `CertManager` resource.

Author: @xingxingxia Can we say - "You can override the **supported** arguments...."? Since we cannot override existing i.e default arguments, I thought of using "supported arguments"

Reviewer: OK

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the {product-title} cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Edit the `CertManager` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit certmanager cluster
----

. Add a `spec.controllerConfig` section with the following override arguments:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
  ...
spec:
  ...
  controllerConfig: <1>
  webhookConfig:
    overrideArgs:
      - '--v=4'
  cainjectorConfig:
    overrideArgs:

>       - '--v=2'

Author: okay

>       - '--v=2'

Reviewer 3: We have a fix up for [OCPBUGS-14129](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14129) in openshift/cert-manager-operator#128, (which now seems to be unrelated to overrideArgs field) so I think we can unblock docs for this.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-customizing-api-fields.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-override-arguments_{context}"]

> = Customizing cert-manager Operator API fields by overriding arguments

Reviewer 3: Probably, this one could also be re-phrased a bit. How about:
`Customizing cert-manager by overriding arguments from operator API`

You can override the default arguments for the {cert-manager-operator} by adding a `spec.controllerConfig` section in the `CertManager` resource.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the {product-title} cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Edit the `CertManager` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit certmanager cluster
----

. Add a `spec.controllerConfig` section with the following override arguments:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
  ...
spec:
  ...
  controllerConfig: <1>
    overrideArgs:
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers=<host>:<port>' <2>
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers-only' <3>
      - '--acme-http01-solver-nameservers=<host>:<port>' <4>

>       - '--v' <5>

Author: Updated '--v=<vlevel>'  as a --v=<verbosity_level>

      - '-V' <5>
      - '--metrics-listen-address=<host>:<port>' <7>
----
<1> Add the `spec.controllerConfig` section.
<2> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the DNS-01 self check. For example, `--dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53`.
<3> Specify to only use recursive nameservers instead of checking the authoritative nameservers associated with that domain.
<4> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the ACME HTTP01 self check. For example, `--acme-http01-solver-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53`.
<5> Specify to set the log level verbosity to determine the amount of detail in logged error messages.
<6> Specify the host and port for the metrics endpoint. The default value is `--metrics-listen-address=0.0.0.0:9402`.

. Save the file to apply the changes.

.Verification

* Verify that the cert-manager pods are running by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n cert-manager

Reviewer 3: Same as the other one,
```
$ oc get pods -n cert-manager -o yaml
```

Reviewer 3: I checked your recent change again wrt, but am leaning more towards the yaml output tbh, the rationale here being that in the verification step users would want to check if the args/env they set have been applied on the actual pod(s) or not.
I understand that the output is way too much, but can you snip it for relevant parts and still put it, i.e. eg.

```log
$ oc get pods -n cert-manager -o yaml
---
    name: cert-manager-6d4b5d4c97-kldwl
    namespace: cert-manager
---
  spec:
    containers:
    - args:
      - --v=2
      - --cluster-resource-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
      - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
 ---
    name: cert-manager-cainjector-866c4fd758-ltxxj
    namespace: cert-manager
---
  spec:
    containers:
    - args:
      - --v=2
      - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
---
    name: cert-manager-webhook-6d48f88495-c88gd
    namespace: cert-manager
---
  spec:
    containers:
    - args:
      - --v=2
      - --secure-port=10250
      - --dynamic-serving-ca-secret-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
      - --dynamic-serving-ca-secret-name=cert-manager-webhook-ca
      - --dynamic-serving-dns-names=cert-manager-webhook,cert-manager-webhook.$(POD_NAMESPACE),cert-manager-webhook.$(POD_NAMESPACE).svc
---
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
  ...
spec:
  ...
  controllerConfig: <1>
    overrideArgs:
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers=<host>:<port>' <2>
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers-only' <3>
      - '--acme-http01-solver-nameservers=<host>:<port>' <4>
      - '--v=<verbosity_level>' <5>
      - '--metrics-listen-address=<host>:<port>' <7>
----
<1> Add the `spec.controllerConfig` section.
<2> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the DNS-01 self check. For example, `--dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53`.
<3> Specify to only use recursive nameservers instead of checking the authoritative nameservers associated with that domain.
<4> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the ACME HTTP01 self check. For example, `--acme-http01-solver-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53`.
<5> Specify to set the log level verbosity to determine the amount of detail in logged error messages.
<6> Specify the host and port for the metrics endpoint. The default value is `--metrics-listen-address=0.0.0.0:9402`.

. Save the file to apply the changes.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe you need add a note that, the supported overridden arguments are intentionally limited. Otherwise oc `get pod <redeployed_cert-manager_pod> -n cert-manager -o yaml` does show other arguments which can't be overridden, which can confuse users then.
See https://github.com/openshift/cert-manager-operator/blob/master/pkg/controller/deployment/deployment_overrides_validation.go#L19
@swghosh can have more suggestion if any.

Reviewer 3: Sure, we can add a note about the currently supported arg list and that it is currently limited to include only the args that have support with our operator.
Users who wish to use beyond them can use `spec.unsupportedConfigOverrides` (which should be specified with warning/red, etc. as that is well **unsupported**).

Author: @swghosh I added the note as a warning.

.Verification

> * Verify that the cert-manager pods are running by entering the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that the cert-manager pod is redeployed by entering the following command:
```

> * Verify that the cert-manager pods are running by entering the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that the cert-manager pod is redeployed by entering the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pods -n cert-manager -o yaml
> ----
> +
> .Example output
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> name: cert-manager-6d4b5d4c97-kldwl
> namespace: cert-manager
> ...
>   spec:
>     containers:
>     - args:
>       - --v=2
>       - --cluster-resource-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
>       - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
> ...
> name: cert-manager-cainjector-866c4fd758-ltxxj
> namespace: cert-manager
> ...
>   spec:
>     containers:
>     - args:
>       - --v=2
>       - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
> ...
> name: cert-manager-webhook-6d48f88495-c88gd
> namespace: cert-manager
> ...
>   spec:
>     containers:
>     - args:
>       - --v=2
>       - --secure-port=10250
>       - --dynamic-serving-ca-secret-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
>       - --dynamic-serving-ca-secret-name=cert-manager-webhook-ca
>       - --dynamic-serving-dns-names=cert-manager-webhook,cert-manager-webhook.$(POD_NAMESPACE),cert-manager-webhook.$(POD_NAMESPACE).svc

Reviewer: `oc get -o yaml` will print fields alphabetically.
And the overridden arguments will be shown along with existing ones.
```suggestion
$ oc get pod <redeployed_cert-manager_pod> -n cert-manager -o yaml
----
+
.Example output. The overridden arguments will be added under the `env` field along with existing ones.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  containers:
  - args:
    - --acme-http01-solver-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53
    - --cluster-resource-namespace=$(POD_NAMESPACE)
    - --dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53
    - --dns01-recursive-nameservers-only
    - --leader-election-namespace=kube-system
    - --max-concurrent-challenges=60
    - --metrics-listen-address=<host>:<port>
    - --v=6
```

Reviewer: You didn't document `webhookConfig` and `cainjectorConfig` for other two components `cert-manager-cainjector` and `cert-manager-webhook`, so you need not display cert-manager-cainjector-xxxx and cert-manager-webhook-xxxx pods. But when I later review https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59777/files , I see it mentions `To use different log levels for different cert-manager components, see Customizing cert-manager by using the cert-manager Operator API fields`, but `Customizing cert-manager by using the cert-manager Operator API fields` does not document the how-to use different log levels for other two components `cert-manager-cainjector` and `cert-manager-webhook`. So you need to document for them by adding below in `oc edit certmanager cluster` part:
```
  webhookConfig:
    overrideArgs:
      - '--v=6'
  cainjectorConfig:
    overrideArgs:
      - '--v=6'
```
